---
layout: page
title: How to create a wiki like this?
permalink: /misc/howTo/
---

## Contents
- [Introduction](#intro)
- [Files and Folders](#files)
- [Development](#devel)
- [Thanks](#thanks)

## Introduction <a name="intro"></a>
This page describes how to create and maintain a wiki like this. To follow along please clone or download a zip of this wiki. 


## Files and Folders <a name="files"></a>
As we are using Jekyll to build the wiki, we follow the standard layout of files and folders as used by Jekyll. We try to keep the layout clean and simple, so that the main focus is on writing content for the wiki. Nonetheless, during the initial stages of development, one has to spend time to designing and formatting the wiki to their liking.

Here is a brief overview of the files and folders in this wiki
### index.html
This is the homepage.

### Gemfile, Gemfile.lock and poole-for-jekyll.gemspec
These are used by jekyll to build the theme of the webpage. In this wiki, these files were taken from the [Poole](https://getpoole.com/) theme. Once you select a theme, these files can be safely ignored.

### \_config.yml
This is the main configuration file where parameters required by Jekyll for building the webpage are set. Most of the parameters are self explanatory.

### about.md
The about page

### atom.xml
File to prove atom feed (like RSS). Programs that keep track of updates to this website will use this feed.

### styles.scss
Imports the .scss files in \_sass to create the final css for the webpage.

### \_includes
Contain header.html and sidebar.html which are the header and the sidebar respectively

### \_layouts
Contains the default page layout default.html. This file uses the files in the \_includes folder to build the default webpage.
Two optional layouts page.html and post.html extend the default layout as necessary.
Whenever a new page of the webpage is creates, it should use one of the above three layouts. 
If it used the page layout then a link appears in the sidebar. If it uses the post layout then it appears on the home webpage. default layout is for the home page.

### \_sass
* **variables.scss** : Defines a few global variables to tweak the theme.
* **base.scss** : The base theme.
* ****

## Thanks <a name="thanks"></a>
The theme this wiki is inspired by the [Hyde](http://hyde.getpoole.com) and [Poole](https://getpoole.com/) themes for [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) developed by [Mark Otto](https://github.com/mdo). You may be interested in reading the story *The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde* to know more about these characters.